# Multi-Document-Extractive-Text-Summarization-A-Comparative-Assessment-on-Features

This repository contains a dataset utilized in a reseach article "Multi-Document-Extractive-Text-Summarization-A-Comparative-Assessment-on-Features". The corresponding article is in reviesion  process. The original data can be obtained from Document Understanding Conference (DUC) web page. In this repository, the obtained feature vector was published which contains all of the hand-crafted features investigated in corresponding article.

A small portion of dataset has been presented here. Please send an e-mail to gbegummutlu@gmail.com to reach the entire dataset.

Abstract
Text summarization is the process of generating a brief version of a text that preserves the salient information of the text. For information retrieval tasks, it is a good dimension reduction solution, if it can be applied efficiently. In addition, it reduces the required reading time. This study focused on extracting informative summaries from multiple documents using commonly used hand-crafted features from the literature. The first investigation focused on the generation of a feature vector. The features were the number of sentences in the current document, term frequency, similarity with the title, term frequency-inverse sentence frequency, sentence position, sentence length, sentence-sentence similarity, bushy-path results, information gained from phrases of the sentence, proper nouns, n-gram co-occurrence, and length of the document. A second investigation examined several combinations of these features and used a shallow multi-layer perceptron and two differently modeled fuzzy inference systems to extract salient sentences from texts in the Document Understanding Conference (DUC) dataset. The summarization performances of these models were evaluated using original classification performance metrics (such as precision, recall, and accuracy), and recall-oriented understudy for gisting evaluation (ROUGE)-n summary evaluation metrics. Based on these evaluations, this study recommended the use of fuzzy systems based on a feature vector and a fuzzy rule set for extractive text summarization. In detailed examinations of this feature set, the extraction methods were evaluated against a changing compression ratio. As a result of these empirical evaluations, it was observed that the implemented neural model tended to incorrectly infer sentences that were not considered salient by human annotators. However, for distinguishing between summary-worthy and summary-unworthy sentences, the fuzzy inference systems performed better than the utilized neural network, as well as better than the existing fuzzy inference-based text summarization approaches in the literature.  
